@@Overview

* Origin Of Module Name *
phArticulated is for physically articulated objects, with individual parts connected by joints.

* Overview *
The phArticulated library contains the classes for physically simulating objects with multiple
parts that are physically connected by joints, such as creature ragdolls and cars with swinging
doors. This is an adaptation of the Featherstone method for fully simulating articulated objects,
and it has been integrated with contact forces. It simulates fully physical objects (ragdolls)
with tunable rigidity. It will allow the combination of animations and physical responses, with
some limbs physical while others are animated on the same body, and also with limbs animated with
physical responses at the same time. The new system will also allow animated creatures to drag
articulated objects, and it will support fixed articulated objects, such as flexible bridges.

@@Components
These are the classes in the physics library:
	*	phArticulatedBody manages the set of body parts and joints, and provides an interface for use
		by the collider and the articulated body manager.
	*	phArticulatedCollider is derived from phCollider, and it updates the articulated body when the
		collider updates. It also provides an interface for use by the simulator and the contact manager
		to handle collisions with articulated objects.
	*	phArticulatedBodyInertia provides inertial math calculations for the joints.
	*	phArticulatedBodyPart simulates a single rigid part of the articulated body.
	*	phJoint is the base joint class, from which joints with one degree of freedom (elbow joints) and
		three degrees of freedom (ball-and-socket joints) are derived.
	*	phJoint1Dof simulates a joint with one degree of rotational freedom (elbows and knees in ragdolls).
	*	phJoint3Dof simulates a joint with all three degrees of rotational freedom (shoulders, hips, neck and
		waists in ragdolls).
	*	phPhaseSpaceVector is a 6-dimensional vector for linear and rotational motion combined in a single class.
		It is used for joints (linear and angular velocity) and for interactions (force and torque).

@@Relationships
phArticulated is an optional RAGE library for simulating articulated objects. No RAGE projects depend
on phArticulated except for tools and samples.
A rough linear order of dependence for the classes in the physics library is, from bottom to top:
phPhaseSpaceVector
phArticulatedBodyInertia
phArticulatedBodyPart
phJoint
phJoint1Dof
phJoint3Dof
phArticulatedBody
phArticulatedCollider
